do you want to be able to sculpt amazing
and fun faces like this then follow
along with me in this complete
beginner's guide to sculpting and
blender we'll have you mastering the
sculpting Tools in no time if it's your
very first time opening blender then
it's a good idea to check out my
complete beginner's guide playlist to
get used to the interface if you're
struggling with this video at all
now it's worth mentioning before we
start that I'm using a display tablet so
I can draw on my screen and it's nice
and easy you can also use a basic
Graphics tablet like this that doesn't
have a screen it's just a little bit
more Awkward to use but still very
effective you can also use a mouse it's
just much easier with a tablet but you
can still get some really good results
the pen that comes with a tablet should
have buttons and you'll want to set the
first button button one to Middle Mouse
button that way you can easily move
around your object if you have two
buttons then you'll want to set the
second one to right click that's what I
use the most but I hardly use that to be
honest so let's get started making our
face so when you first open blender
you'll see a screen like this and you've
got new file options down the left hand
side here and for most people they'll
start off with a general scene but I
just want to quickly show you that there
is a sculpting option as well don't
follow along with this but if I open
that up you'll see that you're straight
into the sculpting workspace and there's
a sphere here that we can start
sculpting on however I don't recommend
that for beginners so we're going to
start with just a general file I've
turned on my shortcut keys down on the
bottom corner here and I'm in blender
3.6 now one thing that's helpful for you
to see what I'm doing is to make my 3D
viewport a little bit bigger and I can
overtake this timeline at the bottom
here you don't have to follow along with
this it won't make too much difference
to you but I can come down to the bottom
corner here where the crosshairs are
click and drag over the other one to
just make the viewport a bit bigger okay
so a quick reminder of the controls
middle Mouse button is to rotate around
your object and if you have your pen set
up then you should have pen button one
set to Middle Mouse button that makes it
nice and easy the wheel of your mouse is
to zoom in and out if you're using a pen
you hold down control while pressing pen
button one the middle Mouse button on
the pen and you can zoom in and out like
this you can use your numpad to jump to
side view and front view and things like
that or you can use the Cartesian
coordinates just here just remember that
you want the X going across so that's X
to minus X that helps for symmetry later
and this Y is actually the positive y
but we have that going away from us in
that direction so going away from us is
positive and this is the side you
generally want to be be looking at your
objects from and I'll explain why more
later now holding down shift to Middle
Mouse button is the strafe side to side
okay so let's set up for sculpting I'll
start by selecting the cube and deleting
it because it's not the best object to
sculpt with I'll press shift a to add
and go to the mesh menu that's the same
as the add menu up here so add and then
mesh and an icosphere is probably the
best shape to start with so I'll add one
of those you should have a dialog box at
the bottom left here if I click on that
disclosure Arrow I can change the
subdivisions so it's nice and high and
we've got lots of polygons to scope with
so we'll go right up to five don't go
too far with this because that could
crash your machine so now that we got to
this point we're ready to start
sculpting on our object so I'll go to
the sculpting workspace at the top here
and this should remind you of the
starting scene if we went straight into
sculpting but the handy thing is we have
the layout workspace that we don't have
to add and we can jump back to if we
need to add any objects I'm going to
extend out the brushes so we can read
the names so on the side of the brushes
here where my cursor changes to the
double arrows I can click and drag and
bring out the names so you can easily
see which brush I'm using I'm going to
start off with a grab brush but before I
do anything it's a really good idea to
turn on symmetry at the top here so
symmetry in the X that's why it's
important that we're looking at it in
terms of the x-axis going across this
way and now we can start editing the
shape you've got brush settings down the
side here and you've also got those
options up the top here as well but it
is much better to have your hand over
the keyboard the shift key and the
control key are the keys you'll be using
all the time so f is to resize your
brush and I can press f move my cursor
side to side and resize my brush easily
shift f is to change the strength but we
don't need to worry too much about that
at the moment so I'll press escape on
that and for most brushes the default
strength will be absolutely fine so
let's start sculpting so we're going to
create a character to your face and I'll
come to the bottom of my sphere here
click and drag and pull that downwards
like this so I created a shape like that
and from side view if I click on this x
here that's what it looks like now it's
pointing forwards a little bit maybe
I'll bring in the face like this who's
got a funny pointed chin we've got
something looking a bit like this I'll
press one on my numpad to go to front
view or you can press on the minus y
just here and I'll bring the shape of
the head in a little bit like this so it
slopes down a tiny bit a little bit
closer and at the front than at the back
that's just how heads are and we've got
a really basic starting point so I'll
come back to side view so you can see
what that looks like and you might want
to pause the video here and catch up
with me
now you might start to see these
polygons stretching slightly we'll
exaggerate that effect by pulling out
the neck here so come around to the
bottom you can see I've got those two
yellow dots and that's the symmetry so
when they're nice and close together we
know that that's the middle point and I
can get them fairly close here click and
drag and pull down a neck like this and
if I just zoom around you can see what
that looks like I could only pull it so
far so I'd put it a bit again and again
and move around my object and pull it
again and again like this so you have to
move around your object a fair bit with
the grab brush to pull it in all the
different directions and we can see that
this is very stretched now if you're
seeing it even more stretched than I am
then you probably didn't have as many
polygons in your ik sphere to start with
don't worry we'll be able to sort that
out in a moment if you're seeing less
stretch than I am then you probably went
up a little bit higher but we can change
the amount of polygons we see and stop
this stretching by using the remesh
options the remesh is up the top here
and can see in this drop down menu here
you can also find that in your brush
settings if my middle Mouse button and
come down to remesh here they're exactly
the same as up here the main thing you
need to remember here is the voxel size
and the actual remesh button now the
voxel size is the size we're going to
make the polygons we can easily see that
by pressing r on our keyboard and this
is the size that it's going to make the
polygons based on the shape we've
already made and about .08 looks good so
I'll left click there and to actually
press the remesh button the shortcut key
is Ctrl R and you can see it's remeshed
it and taken away a bit of this stretch
now it still looks a little bit lumpy so
I'll probably go a little bit lower with
my number so I'll press R again go a
little bit lower to 0.07 it can be
fairly rough it doesn't have to be bang
on and control R and that's about right
for the amount of detail we need at the
moment now one thing that may help you
if I go up to the overlays here click on
this drop down and turn on statistics
you can see the amount of faces you have
in your scene now I've got a fairly
powerful machine and I can comfortably
go above 3 million faces using this
technique for older machines you want to
keep it down to probably around half a
million at the most but you'll find out
as you go along and if your workspace
starts to lag a bit then you might want
to change your remesh voxel size so it's
just a little bit higher so now's a good
time to catch up with me creating the
neck and remeshing your shape
okay so let's start sculpting a little
bit more so I'll bring out a nose at the
front I'll make my brush a bit smaller
so F to resize the brush put the points
into the middle layer so they're
together and click and drag outwards now
that didn't really work for me so I'll
undo that come further around to the
side and make my brush a little bit
bigger again points close together click
and drag outwards that's a bit better
and I'll pull outwards a little bit here
and maybe a little bit further with the
nose and point it upwards like this
we've got a funny shaped nose there I
can come around to the front and start
pulling this area in and we're slowly
starting to get an area for the eye
sockets and maybe pull this area in as
well okay so there's the start of my
nose in fact I'll just take the bridge
of the nose in a little bit there
and that looks a little bit better and
once we got this point we see a bit of
stretching so we can press Ctrl R to
create that remesh again
and we can see a little bit of
blockiness there so perhaps I'll press R
again bring my voxel size down to this
time 0.06 and press Ctrl R to remesh and
that's a little bit better and I think
that will help us and give us just that
little bit more detail now you might be
thinking why am I not just putting it up
and going really detailed because my
computer can handle it what's the
problem well the general rule is keep as
low detail as possible for as long as
possible the reason being if I come
around to the neck just here and I hold
down shift and draw over the neck you
can see it's smoothing it out and it's
doing a nice job of smoothing it out I
can go to other areas hold down shift
holding down shift takes you to the
smooth brush but it's just a quick way
of doing it so hold down shift and I can
smooth out that area there for example
what the smooth brush does it takes your
polygons and kind of evens them out if I
have lots and lots of fine polygons it
makes a big difference to the smooth
brush and how much of the shape it moves
around and in the early stages you you
want your smooth brush to be quite
influential so you keep the polygons
nice and big to start with and the
detail as low as possible
and then as we go along we don't need
the smooth brush to move the shape as
much so we can up the detail a bit more
okay so you might want to pause the
video here and catch up with me creating
the nose and just have a little go using
the smooth brush which is holding down
shift
so hopefully gotten okay with that now
I'm going to start refining the shape
still using the grab brush so I'll come
around to the side here and pull in an
eye in this sort of Direction bring this
area back a little bit as well
cheekbones up just a touch I'll zoom out
a bit and I'll change the forehead make
my brush nice and big and maybe give him
a funny sort of shaped head at the back
here bring this area in and we're
starting to get a reasonable looking
shape I think I'd like the mouth area to
come in a bit more and the chin to be
more sort of curvy like this and you can
just have lots of fun creating a shape
yourself
for the eyes I'm going to zoom in a bit
and just create an area for a sphere to
go in so I'll create a nice rounded eye
socket around here bring the middle back
a bit not the outside here or the nose
so just so it's rounded out like this
and perhaps bring them together a bit
we've got this sort of eye socket shape
now I've made some changes Ctrl R to do
the remesh so we've got a nice even
detail across the mesh
and that's starting to look fairly good
so once again you might want to pause
the video and have a go at setting up a
shape that's kind of similar to mine in
some way don't worry if it's not exactly
the same it really doesn't have to be it
is a character to have some fun
if you're enjoying this tutorial and
want to push your sculpting skills even
further then you should try out my
sculpting bundle you get three top
selling courses at the incredibly low
price of 29 you'll learn everything you
need to know to create stunning 3D
models from characters to dragons and
beasts you'll also learn the very basics
of rigging and animation so you can
start to make them move around Walk and
Run so why not give it a try today
let's put some ears in and a little
shape for the mouth so I'll go to the
draw brush this time with the draw brush
I'll bring that size down a bit by
pressing f a little bit further and just
draw in a round shape for the ears like
this nice simple way to do some ears so
I've gone about that far and then I'll
draw out a little bit further at the
back of the ears and then smooth out the
front so hold down shift smooth out the
front and I kind of got some ears there
just by using the draw brush give it a
little bit more bulk at the top there
and around the side here and then Ctrl R
to remesh again and that's not looking
too bad now how do I dig into the shape
well if I hold down control I can use
the reverse of the brush and dig into
the shape like this just smooth out that
area there and we've got some really
nice simple ears so on any brush you can
hold down control and it will do the
reverse so in this case push inwards
rather than pull outwards let's just add
a little area for the mouth just there
just a little shape for the moment
about that much ready for adding more
detail so now's a good time to pause the
video and catch up with me creating your
ears and a small area for the lips
okay now we're going to start adding
more detail but before we do that let's
bring in some eyeballs now you can do
this in sculpt mode because we can
change the mode of this object to object
mode here and then add some eyeballs
that way the problem is we have to set
up being able to see our 3D cursor and
it's just a little bit awkward so I'm
going to change back to sculpt mode
whilst in the sculpting workspace that's
just up here and to add the Spheres I'm
going to go across to layout mode and
you can see my 3D cursor in the middle
there that's particularly helpful to
move the 3D cursor I move my mouse over
an area and press shift right click so I
want to move it to this area where I
want my sphere to go and that's why I
set up button 2 on my pen as right click
I can go to my ADD menu so shift a is
the shortcut for that or add menu mesh
and then this time we'll use a UV Sphere
for the eyes
I'll scale that down probably somewhere
around here we'll have fairly small eyes
maybe a tiny bit smaller something like
that it's a good idea to check it inside
view so three to go to side view that's
on your numpad and then one to go to
front view that'd be a little bit close
in somewhere around there okay so I'm
going to zoom into the eye now you can
see the shape of the polygons kind of go
to a point up here and it's a good idea
to have that at the front because it
just looks a little bit like a pupil you
don't have to do this but I like to
press R then X and 90 to rotate it
around the x-axis 90 degrees and press
enter and it just looks a little bit
more like an eyeball and it makes it a
bit easier for setting up my eyelids
just go to side view and make sure we've
got it roughly in the right place and a
little bit of space maybe half the
eyeballs distance towards the bridge of
the nose there and that's probably
around the correct position it doesn't
matter a great deal because this is a
caricature and we can make them look
silly so we're ready to start sculpting
our head again but before we go back to
the sculpting workspace make sure you
select the head first and then go back
to the sculpting workspace
that way I'm ready to sculpt on the head
I'll just undo that with Ctrl Z if for
any reason you went back to sculpt mode
with the eyes selected you can change
which object you're sculpting by moving
your mouse over the object and pressing
alt Q can you see how it flashes red to
say well that's what's selected and
that's what you'll be sculpting so I'll
press alt Q over my head and it might be
a good idea to label these objects as
well just so it's clear what I've got
selected we can do that in the outliner
I'll just extend that out slightly and I
can double click on the icosphere and
call that head and there's the sphere
you can see I've now selected that and
you can see it there and I'll double
click on that and call it I notice it's
highlighted red because it's not
actually the active object you can't
jump between objects in the outliner
when you're in sculpt mode only in
object mode so just so there's no
confusion I'll click back to the head
and you can see that's yellow but just
make sure you've got it highlighted here
so you know that you're sculpting on
that and if in any doubt remember you've
got alt Q to jump back to the headphone
model so pause the video here and add in
the eyes
okay so we need to up the details to put
in some eyelids and to add some detail
to things like the mouth so press R and
let's go down a bit further now so 0.03
I would say somewhere around there and
control R see what that looks like and
let's test it out now for the moment
I've not got an eyeball the other side
that's okay we'll just start drawing the
eyelid out
with the jaw brush and I'll pull it out
like this so I'll just keep drawing
until I've got some sort of eyelid now
it's a bit all over the place at the
moment but let's press Ctrl R to do a
remesh and remember we've got the smooth
brush to smooth it out so using the
drawer brush smooth it out a bit then
remesh to fix the polygons do the same
at the bottom here so just keep drawing
to pull out an eyelid this is the nice
easy way to do it looks a bit strange
control R remesh hold down shift and
smooth that out and we've got really
basic eyelets but we've got no eyeball
the other side we can fix that but I
just wanted to show you what that looks
like so this is what our sculpt ends up
looking we've got the eyelids kind of
sticking out from the mesh and we've got
a gap for the eyeball like that what we
need to do is copy this eyeball to the
other side so let's quickly go back to
layout mode with the eyeball selected we
could just duplicate it to the other
side but there's a nice easy way to
mirror it so we know it's in exactly the
right place we go to the modifiers down
here where this spanner or wrenches add
modifier and the mirror far is in the
middle of generate I'll click on that
now it looks like it's not working
because it's actually mirroring around
its Center Point which is that orange
dot just there we want to use the head
shape as the mirror object so it'll be
the center of our head that it will be
mirroring along the x-axis so the x-axis
is highlighted here if we change the
mirror object by clicking the Picker
choosing the head you can see now that's
the mirror object and the sphere jumps
the other side and we've got some
eyeballs so remember to select the head
before going back into the sculpting
workspace I'm going to go into the
sculpting workspace anyway without
selecting the head and you'll notice I
can't sculpt on my head so we press alt
Q to select the head just in case you
forget okay so catch up with me and
mirror the eyeball across to the other
side
Okay so we've got a pretty good starting
point have we got enough detail not
really because the eyelids are looking a
bit blocky so we probably want to up
that a little bit but before we up the
detail perhaps we can just start adding
a nostril in here a little bit of Shaker
around there something like this and
maybe back to the grab brush and resize
and just change the shape of things a
little bit so we've got a little bit
more shape around the head maybe a
little bit around the cheeks they can
possibly go in a little bit here make
them a little bit more sort of gaunt and
perhaps a little bit more bulk around
here I think actually I'll go this way
and that looks kind of fun and you can
just start playing with the shape a
little bit like this it's looking okay
at the moment I would say maybe you
needed a little bit more bulk at the
back of his head just there doesn't
matter too much that area though he
could have a funny head like this or
like this whatever you decide I think
somewhere around there I smooth that out
a bit by holding down shift and I'll
quickly put in some nostrils before
adding any more details the drawer brush
again is best for this so draw a brush
brush fairly small but the size of a
nostril and hold down control so I do a
little bit let go do a little bit more
let go and just build it up slowly
hold down shift to smooth out a little
bit high at the moment but that's okay
we can fix that control R to do a remesh
and I might just get the grab brush and
pull them down a little bit just about
there I sort of feel like some strange
flared nostrils might look fun something
like this anyway a little bit this
direction this way you have a bit of fun
probably pull them in a little bit here
slowly getting there okay so now's a
good time to catch up with me adding
that little bit of detail in and
remember to have a bit of fun change the
shape around and just play around
okay so we need a bit more detail for
the lips and to start creasing in some
areas and the moment I'm on about 26 000
faces which is quite low so we can press
R to see our voxel size we can probably
go down to 0.1 now now we've got the
basic shape somewhere around there and
Ctrl R to remesh and you can see we've
got a lot more detail and I'll just make
my brush a bit smaller and hold down
shift and you can see that it's having a
lot less effect smoothing things out
nicely but it's not moving my shape as
much which is exactly what I want and
this is starting to look very nice okay
so how do we start drawing that bit of
detail the crease brush is really nice
for this and it's a bit like a detail
brush I'll start off with the lips I'll
make it nice and small zoom in a fair
bit and start off by doing a bit of a u
shape like this and then down a bit like
that so it's an upside down W and then
you can come up if you want a bit of
smile at the end there so it's pulled
that area in like this looks a bit
strange at the moment but press Ctrl R
to do a remesh just so we've got that
basic starting point and I'll do the
same again a little little bit around
there coming around about here and
that's looking good now what the crease
brush does it creates this sort of Dent
but it also pushes and pulls the
topology though faces together now if I
hold down shift for a smooth brush and
just lightly smooth out and it's worth
saying that you've automatically got
your strength or your pen pressure set
up here so I'm only lightly brushing
across the screen so if I hold down
shift and lightly brush it will do less
than if I hold down shift and brush
harder because of that pressure
sensitivity so I lightly press across it
to smooth it out a little bit we've got
a bit of a lip shape there but it's not
great it needs to be a little bit more
rounded so I'll smooth out this area
here and this area here we want a little
bit more definition to the front here
now I've used the crease brush to dig in
I'll just dig that in a little bit
further around here and around here you
can also use the crease brush to kind of
pull out a line so if I hold down
control it will pull outwards so I'll
create a sort of lip shape around here
like this and again lightly smooth out
and at the base here about there they
look kind of funny at the moment and
look really strange but we can easily
adapt this shape I'll also make my brush
a little bit bigger and create a sort of
the fulcrum thing there so we've got a
bit of detail but it needs a bit of tidy
up I think the grab brush will help us
here come around to the side a bit and
start organizing the shape a bit more so
let's grab that area in here that in
there pull that out and just create more
of a lip shape generally speaking the
top lip sticks out more than the bottom
lip that's a good rule of thumb and it's
going to have a weird pointy chin like
this I might edit the chin a little bit
more
something like that maybe coming in a
bit here you can make it all sorts of
shapes
and these coming back here in there it's
looking a bit better let's get the
smooth brush and that's not looking too
bad I'll just stick them out a little
bit more pouty lips and then zoom out
and see what we've got we've got some
funny small lips there looks quite good
I'll bring them up a little bit just for
preference and I think they're looking
pretty good controller do a remesh now
you might find you lose a bit of detail
there but that's okay because we'll come
back and add more detail at the end with
that area but before we do that we need
to work on other areas in our detail
smooth out the nose a little bit back to
the crease brush for adding that detail
brush a bit smaller tend to go quite
small with the crease brush in terms of
the size and let's draw that nostril I
can also draw a bit of a line down here
for the mouth and use your smooth brush
to smooth these areas out a bit smaller
detail in the nostril there reverse
crease brush to create some sort of
outline of the nostrils here and maybe
give them a bit of bulk around here and
then smooth out you can go for quite a
stylized look and give it really sort of
creased edges like this remember to
smooth out as well and it makes a bit
more stylized I don't really want to do
that at the moment but that's the sort
of thing you can do I'll just increase
that fulcrum bit there and I just go
back to the draw brush and dig in a
little bit more for the nostrils and
smooth out a bit more and control
again we'll lose a little bit of detail
that's okay I'll tidy up a bit with the
grab brush so across the grab brush tidy
up a bit
again this all depends on the style
you're going for I like to move around
my object a lot see it from lots of
different angles
and I'll just do a few adjustments
around the place tidying up I'm kind of
rounded area there
maybe a little bit up and down here a
little bit square at the moment but
that's okay zoom out a bit see what that
looks like
it's kind of fun
a bit more rounded at the front
sort of ball shaped at the front now
that looks fun okay once again now's a
good time to catch up with me and make
those minor adjustments
so you've got a fun looking face so
let's work on the ears next then so back
to our crease brush for the detail I
think we need a bit more definition
around the Jaws so I'll dig that in take
it all the way down to the bottom here
and smooth that area out I'll smooth the
neck out a bit as well give the neck a
bit of definition a lot of this comes
with a bit of experience in terms of
where muscles are and Anatomy but just a
little bit of detail around there smooth
around the top of the head and the back
of the neck I'm certainly starting to
get there and let's dig in to this area
here around the ears you might find you
want to use the draw brush here make it
nice and small and dig in that way
because you might need a little bit more
depth but you do have to smooth around a
lot around that area in order for it to
make sense now I need to dig in here a
little bit as well but I prefer the
crease brush really it's just nice and
simple and quick
we get a bit of detail around there a
bit of detail around there let's create
a bit more of a canal for the ears so
hold down control and then smooth out as
it comes towards the head here Ctrl R to
do a remesh just to make sure
that we haven't distorted the topology
too much
or stretched it too much smoothing out
around the area again and back to the
crease brush and this with the ears I do
like to add a little bit of stylization
so on the inside here we can hold down
control to do the reverse crease
nice and simple like this I'll smooth
out a bit hold down shift and on the
outside as well like this
again smoothing out just here and there
it's a little bit skewed in terms of
where it's headed so grab brush is good
for that and just pull it back into
position
a little bit of smoothing you can give
them funny shaped ears at this point and
they're kind of fun nice and simple is
just do some smoothing around the back
here okay let's look at the eyelids and
eyeballs I'll get the grab brush to
start with and just move them into
position so about this sort of size and
let's start moving them into position
now you might find it's difficult to
rotate around an area because my camera
Target in a sense where it's pointing is
kind of behind the eye so it's rotating
behind the eye if I hold down alt and
middle click that sets it to wherever I
point to and that's really helpful so I
can now zoom in on the eye it helps to
come around to the side and pull the
mesh out where needed from there and
then pull it up from the front here it's
probably a bit too much in fact let's
zoom out and have a look now I'm going
too high there I want to bring this down
let's say this is the pupil and this is
the iris the top eyelid overlaps the
iris and sometimes depending on how wide
their eyes are you can just touch the
top of the pupil that looks usually
about right
pull this area out a little bit and this
area down and smooth out
and zoom out so it looks a little bit
tight at the moment but if I pull this
bottom one down a little bit more and
just maybe I'll put a little bit there
that's a bit more like it Okay so we've
got the positioning
maybe this bit down a touch and remember
if you need to resize your brush to give
you more control
and zoom in resize with f
let's add a little bit more
and tidy up to there that's about right
it's not too bad and then let's get to
the detail again let's quickly control R
and remesh
and add some detail
so bring this down in terms of size dig
in the eye
for the top of the eyelids here
and create a little bit of shape for the
bottom there and then smooth that out
sort of comes around to the side a
little bit here like that
a little bit of crease at the end here
maybe sort of going out with some
wrinkles
smooth this area out a little bit
something like that
and for the eyelids hold down control
the reverse crease
and create that eyelid shape like this
and around here like this crease at the
end like that
a little bit of a crease in here
for the tear duct and we've got some
relatively good looking eyes press Ctrl
R to do a remesh obviously again we lose
a bit of detail but then I can once
again bring that out with the reverse
crease and the smooth brush as well so a
combination of crease and smooth brush
so got some relatively decent detail
there before adding any more detail I
just want to sort out
the brow line so grab the grab brush
resize it and let's pull that in a bit a
little bit of a frown Maybe
something like this maybe coming down a
bit or depends what you want up or down
sort of a frown or not push it in a
little bit like that maybe
looks a bit frowny at the moment even
more of a frown now but the lips don't
look very frowny you see so maybe I'll
just have a neutral position
up like that a little bit out this way
tiny bit in this way got a little bit of
a dent in that area there let's just
zoom out to see how that's looking
that's not too bad and you've got to
sort of um Ridge type thing there for
the forehead let's come to the front a
little bit back male forehead slope
backwards a little bit more than females
they get a bit more straight up to check
out my video on the difference between
male and female heads I'll put a card in
the corner and Link in the description
let's add some detail to this now back
to the crease brush let's add some
detail across there sort of frown lines
I feel like a little bit more detail in
here it should be a little bit more bulk
over here as well so I might just get to
the draw brush and add a bit of bulk
like that and then smooth out that's the
easy way just add a bit of bulk and then
smooth it out
something along those sort of lines not
brilliant
but we're getting there back to the
crease brush
detail across there
a little bit in here
a little bit coming down here as well
just a little bit sort of a bit of a bag
in this area that's not looking too bad
maybe some forehead brow sort of creases
and again you can go quite small with
your brush it'll create more detailed
lines and once again smooth out and
that's not looking too bad
and then we can just tidy up the shape
a little bit more with the grab brush
just gently
editing and you can take your time with
these things it doesn't have to be a
rush
maybe a little bit thicker lips
it's looking kind of fun a bit more of
an Adam's apple
something like that
then you can add all sorts of detail and
have some fun whatever you see fit these
kind of go back a little bit behind the
cheek so the cheek sticks out a little
bit more and that's quite fun okay so
the last level of detail now where we
start really tidying up these shapes so
R to go to the voxel size so something
like
.006 and then Ctrl R to do remesh now
just over half a million faces now so
slower computers you might find that a
bit tough you might want to go a little
bit lower in detail to a higher number
but now I can come in with the crease
brush and really tidy the mesh up so
really refining and defining these areas
use the smooth brush as well to smooth
out especially around the lips I can
really crease those in like this now
maybe have a little bit of a dimple at
the end there crease brush across here
I'm gonna add probably a little bit of
bulk so just a little bit of bulk around
here with the drawer brush and again
smooth out let's see what that looks
like sort of getting there crease brush
just underneath here
just going to crease a little bit around
here around the mouth maybe give them a
funny double chin
maybe something like that might have
some more creases
in this sort of area depending on how
sort of stylized you want but I usually
crease a bit and then smooth out and get
it sort of how I want it with the crease
brush reverse crease up the top here
just to stick it out a little bit more
that's probably not quite right maybe
more down this way there we go and then
Smooth Up
a bit more detail around the eyelids
reverse crease
and then smooth out where you need to
and what I'm doing is creasing then
smoothing increasing and smoothing
paint and then smooth out a bit lightly
smooth out
then again use the crease brush once
more
if it goes a bit wobbly like this you've
got the grab brush you can move in and
really refine the shape if you want
a bit more crease under the eyelid
sort of working a bit smoothing out
there
it's looking alright
probably a little bit more crease around
here maybe and it might be at this point
that you turn off Symmetry and have a
little bit of asymmetry in those points
around here and that's quite fun to do
as well
that makes it look a little bit more
realistic but do remember you've turned
it off and that you need to turn it back
on for any other details you're going to
do
and there we have our really fun face
looking a bit weird and wonderful in the
next episode I'll go through how you can
paint your sculpts nice and easily and
render them so you can show your friends
thanks for watching and I'll see you
next time